what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose today I'm
joined by kenji again
what's up from ng to me to vlogs you
guys saw him in my last video on the MM
eyes so I'm gonna be doing a mini-series
on my channel where I talk about
different MMI questions how we would
answer them my thoughts on them what you
should talk about things that you
definitely want to avoid maybe spikes
things like that and then hope you guys
find them useful for um in my practice
enjoy there'll also be a couple of my
videos on Kenji's channel you guys want
to check him out go to his YouTube
channel follow him on social media
Instagram snapchat and all the rest of
it in this first video I wanted to talk
about why in this video I wanted to talk
about why you chose medicine in this
first video I want to tackle the
question why medicine and not another
health care field so this is a question
that I was asked when I was interviewed
in Bristol and it's one that comes up
pretty often you should know how to
answer or at least what to think about
in a question like this really what
they're getting at is why did you choose
to be a doctor or why do you want to be
a doctor as opposed to a nurse a
healthcare assistant a physiotherapist a
research scientist any of these other
positions not also help people because a
common answer given to one of these
questions is well I want to help people
almost every job helps peeps you want to
give reasons why medicine is
distinguished from all these other
professions in your answer you want to
really bring across why being a doctor
is unique so for example a common
comparison is made between doctors and
nurses right and nurses play a really
important role in the hospital in fact
they spend way more time with patients
and doctors near it so forces that
actually acknowledge that and be like
actually nurses play a massive part of
the team yeah and you would have
hospital directors yeah and reason for
to say that first absolutely big red
flag is to diminish the role of nurses
to talk about nurses or any other health
care health care professional in a
negative light you definitely don't want
to do that you want to show how they're
important also how doctors are important
but why doctor it's different yes one
thing you can say is that doctors often
have the final decision in a matter you
can kind of bring in your own personal
experience from this as well so you can
say when I was in hospital I was part of
an MDT team and I noticed as a
consultant always had fun decision or
the doctors
had the biggest decision and that kind
of suits your personality so for me you
know I love being I love having about
control a lot of responsibility and you
could definitely say that as well
doctors will have an elevated sense of
responsibility and leadership right and
like Andy said doctors do make the final
decision the final care of the patient
falls on their shoulders so if you are
someone who likes to be in those kinds
of positions then maybe being a doctor
is a good fit for you and you definitely
want to back that up you want to say why
it is that you would make a good doctor
why why are you a good leader why do you
like high responsibilities yeah example
of where you showed that as well
something could be like okay I'm a
captain or a team or I work in a
restaurant and I'm the manager or
whatever yeah and you're back up with
your own experience and how you could
transfer that from your experience now
to being you know being a doctor exactly
you can also mention that nurses right
now have an increasing responsibility so
there are different specialities of
nurses and they asked getting more more
power but again you know the last final
decision is normally up to the
consultant yeah
always bring it back to you and bring it
back to an experience that you've had so
that you can show and demonstrate what
it is that you're talking about
otherwise your answer is gonna sound
very bland it's not gonna be unique and
it won't stick in the interviewers mind
yeah there's no point saying like oh I'm
great having responsibility and luck I'm
responsibility they're actually showing
how you did it exactly this yeah you
might as well not say yeah exactly yeah
another common healthcare position is
being a research scientist and the
reasons that I would give for why doctor
is different than that is mostly about
the interpersonal connections and the
social interaction that you have with
your patients being a doctor puts you in
a unique position to be able to talk to
patients and follow them through time
you get to see them progress or even
worsen but you get to follow them and
you get to see how they change and your
decisions and your impact what caused
that change maybe in other positions
like a research scientist or a
pharmacist you don't get to see the
patient over time you don't get to
follow their progression and that's
something that is unique to doctors now
you can say like an I loved impersonal I
love being social I think we know
working allowed the two of us definitely
know that sometimes it's just me and my
cells all day and you know you'd loved
it you know the person struction yeah
being a doctor because sometimes you may
not like that you know you may not see
your personality as well
yeah you know as doctor you're always
gonna be talking to new patients you're
gonna be learning their story and you
don't get to do that so much as a
research scientist a lot of the time
like him she said it's just you with the
earphones on Jonah go and work like the
feds yeah I mean I'm in love now as well
but at least now I when I work without I
haven't time to speak to your patients
yeah so it's not you know it's not as
difficult as I found it before if you
want to sit in research like you know
the two of us you could always say that
when I do become a doctor I want to
pursue a career in research as well in
academia so for me personally I do
definitely want to go down the role of
research so right now I'm working in lab
NASA was working a lab over summer and
you can definitely become a research
position if you can call it research
right yeah you definitely a research
position if you'd like to so that's
another point you can raise that I want
to help patients today but I also want
to change the world for tomorrow being a
researcher and there is as a key point
and there are rules for you know for
nurses to be involved that again a lot
of times the EPI or the lead
investigator is a doctors and
consultants yeah
so there's another massive point you
could mention you know the bench bench
to bedside kind of thing
yeah one another point you could say is
that you are really interested in
science behind medicine so medicine is a
five or six year course and we go into a
lot of detail you know in medicine a lot
of times the first two years of medicine
is just pure science and that's
something you may not necessarily have
on a two or three year nursing course so
you could just say that yeah that is
something I'm really blessed in I've so
passionate about you know the science of
things and I want to fully understand it
before I go on to help patients yeah and
a lot of times in nursing I think from
day from my week one they go into the
wards and they learn a lot more about
care of patients rather than the science
behind it in addition to that is also
the anatomy as someone studying medicine
you get to have a much deeper look into
anatomy you also get a cataract
dissection and all that Anatomy is a
very important part of the course so if
that's something that interests you as
well then that's a good reason for one
can study medicine another really great
thing about medicine is that it's so
diverse and there are I don't say
infinite but there are so many different
specialties that you can go into any
single part of the human body that you
find most interesting that you think is
really cool you can specialize in
and you'll never run out of years of
training in the hospital you never run
out of books to read about it there's
always more and more information coming
out every single day the scene is
rapidly evolving and there's so much to
learn yeah and there's a really long
career I mean you'll constantly be
learning from day one medical school up
until the final days of consulting and
even when you aren't in source and I
think you still do so much sure yeah
then obviously that is possible and
nursing as well but early and go to the
extensive you know what medicine is like
in terms of specialities and learning as
well so the final point that I want to
hit on is about the role of teaching as
a doctor and teaching is something that
is central to the role of a doctor it's
something that you learn very well in
medical school and you continue to do
throughout your practice and I talked in
my interview about my love for teaching
I did little teaching sessions at
university to help other students
understand the lecture material a little
bit better and I thought that brought
across like a really nice way to show
that I was personable as well and being
able to teach is one of those core
skills that they want to see in their
students when applying for medicine so I
think that came across quite well as
well so I think that's where we're gonna
wrap it up for it today I hope those
tips gave you something to think about
when answering this question in your mm
eyes if there's anything that you guys
want to see me in Kenji answer in a
future video any specific questions
something that you want a little bit
more information on do let us know in a
comment down below don't forget to go to
Kenny's channel subscribe to his channel
check him out and yeah we'll see you
guys in the next video
peace